# AI Career Coach — README

## Overview

Welcome to the overview video for the project: **your personalized job application coach based on LLM**. Job hunting is changing. In today’s competitive job market, traditional job hunting methods are not enough. Job seekers often face numerous challenges—from crafting standout resumes to effectively communicating their value to potential employers. With the rise of digital platforms and changing hiring practices, there’s a growing demand for innovative solutions for crafting effective resumes and guiding career growth.

## What you will build

In this project, you will build an **AI career coach** that provides three essential apps:

1. **Resume Polisher** – uses AI to analyze and improve resumes based on job descriptions.
2. **Cover Letter Generator** – drafts customized cover letters, enhancing job application processes.
3. **Career Advisor** – provides career improvement recommendations.

## Resume Polisher (Demo flow)

For optimal results, **polish your resume section by section**. The resume polisher is displayed in an interface designed using **Gradio**.

* **Position name**: enter the role or position you want (e.g., data analyst).
* **Resume content**: enter the content you wish to modify.
* **Polish instruction**: enter any instruction or improvement areas you want to suggest.
* Click **Submit**. After a few seconds, the revised content is displayed.

## Cover Letter Generator (Demo flow)

Assists you in crafting cover letters that showcase your skills and experiences and customizes them to fit the job and company you’re applying to.

* Enter the **company name** and **position**.
* Enter the **job description**.
* Enter the **content of your resume**.
* Click **Submit**. You will have the cover letter generated in a few seconds.

## Career Advisor (Demo flow)

Provides advice about your career based on the job and your resume. The tool interface includes several fields:

* Enter the **position** for which you wish to apply.
* Enter the **job description** for the position or role.
* Enter the **content of your resume**.
* Click **Submit**. After a few seconds, the career coach will provide enhancement areas or other recommendations.

## Technology

The applications in this project are built by leveraging the **Llama-2-70-b-chat** large language model (LLM) developed by Meta. This model has been integrated into **IBM’s watson x.ai** platform. The project equips you with the knowledge to incorporate LLMs from watsonx.ai into your applications using the provided APIs. You will build the web interface of the applications using **Gradio**. With Gradio, you can quickly design web interfaces, enabling users to input data in diverse forms—such as text, images, or audio—and instantly view the output generated by a model. The project provides a tutorial to familiarize you with Gradio and how to create a simple Gradio application.

**creating a Q&A chatbot** leveraging the **llama-3-2-11b-vision-instruct model** developed by Meta. This powerful foundation model has been seamlessly integrated into IBM's watsonx.ai platform, simplifying your development journey. Our provided API eliminates the need for generating complex API tokens, streamlining the application creation process. The llama-3-2-11b-vision-instruct model is equipped with features designed to

* Supports Q&A
* Summarization
* Classification
* Generation
* Extraction
* Retrieval-Augmented Generation tasks
This model aligns perfectly with our objective for the application being created.

Note: The llama-3-2-11b-vision-instruct model, like any AI technology, has its limitations, and it is possible to encounter nonsensical responses occasionally. The primary objective of this project is to provide guidence on utilizing LLMs with watsonx.ai.



## Getting ready

To work on this project, you should be familiar with the **basics of Python**. However, do not worry about writing complex scripts to build these applications—the project includes **step-by-step instructions** and the required Python scripts.

## Learning objectives

By the end of this module, you will be able to:

* **Build AI-powered applications** with Python programming.
* **Leverage open source LLMs** integrated into AI platforms such as IBM watsonx.
* **Utilize Gradio** to build a web interface for an application.

## Goal

This project delves into building a **generative AI–powered career coach**. The project aims to support career guidance using AI to offer **personalized recommendations** tailored to individual aspirations and goals.

